# SDS Tutorial - Version: March 2018 
This is a tutorial for SDS, a Stokessian Dynamics Simulator, is a C++ code to simulate time evolution of particulate suspensions with possible charge transfer between particles. The time evolution of particles is simulated using Stokesian dynamics formulation and the electric potential interactions between particles are simulated using Resistor-Capacitor formulation. For details of thoretical formulations please see two publications listed below:

- M. Karzar-Jeddi, H. Luo, P.T. Cummings, Mobilities of polydisperse hard spheres near a no-slip wall, Computers & Fluids, 2018
- M. Karzar-Jeddi, H. Luo, P.T. Cummings, K.B. Hatzell, Computational Modeling of Particle Hydrodynamics and Charging Process for the Flowable Electrodes of Carbon Slurry, Journal of Electrochemical Society


# Requirements

The SDS code can run on both Windows and Linux. On Windows machine, the code can be compiled using Microsoft Visual Studiio. Prequisite for using Microsoft Visual Studio to run the code is installation of LAPACK package, linear algebra package. Instructions on how to install LAPACK in Microsoft Visual Studio are provided in:
https://icl.cs.utk.edu/lapack-for-windows/VisualStudio_install.html

On Linux machine the code can be compiled using g++. However LAPACK package has to be installed before and address through makefile.

# Input files

The input files for setting up simulation are:
- input.txt

input.txt file defines most of the setup for simulation and how the code should run. This file consists of input values for many of variable and flags for set up the code. This is to let the code understand what is the time step, what is the length of simulations, what is the number of particles, what are the initial configuration, should lubrication approximation accounted, and so. Note that all parameters in input file should have a value regardless if they are being used or not. The enteries are to set up in few categories:

Set up flags and parameters

** deltat: is size of time step for transient simulation
** nstep: is the total number of time steps
** sstep: is starting time step or initial time step (if you are starting from initial time, you may set it to 0)
** nsamp: is the periodic saving time steps
** version: defines the mobility tensor version, 0 is for F, 1 is for FT, and 2 is for FTS. Note that for simulation near to wall ** version bigger than 1 is not allowed.
** flag_poly: set it to 0 for monodisperese particle size and set it to 1 for polydisperse size distribution
** flag_mat: the code was being developed in two versions Matrix based and non matrix based. Later I decided to develop the code based on mobility matrix so keep it at 1
** flag_lub: set it to 0 to solve set up with out lubrication assumption and set it to 1 for with lubrication consideration.
** flag_prob: 0 is to define problem in free space, 1 is to set problem near a no-slip wall.
** flag_fix: 0 is to set mobile particles only simulations, 1 is to set fixed particles next to mobile particle at one side, 2 is to set up fixed particles at both sides of simulation cell.
** flag_per: 0 value is to set free space simulation, 1 is to set periodic cell in x direction only, 2 is to set peridic cell in xy- plane, and 3- is to set xy- Lees-Edwards periodic boundary conditions. 
** flag_cper: is to set charge of incoming particles in periodic cell. 0 means particles in periodic cells will have zero charge, and 1 means that the particles in periodic cells will exchange charge with the main cell.
** periodic: 0 is to set ewald summation and 1 is to set non-Ewald summation.
** flag_fread: is to set initial particles configuration to generated by code (value 0) or to be read from file (value 1) 
** flag_config: is a parameter to set the initial particle configuration from a file.
** phi: uniform volume fraction of initiral particle configuration
** nx: is the number of initial particles in x direction
** ny: is the number of initial particles in y direction
** nz: is the number of initial particles in z direction

Far field velociteis (\mathbf U_{infinity})
** U_x
** U_y
** U_z

Far field strain rate (\mathbf E_ii)
** E_xx
** E_xy
** E_xz
** E_yz
** E_zz

Lubrication parameters


- location.txt
This file defines initial particles 


- force.txt

This file is to set up external force that is applied to each of the mobile particles or to set up velocity to mobile particles.

# Output files

Out put files for simulation are 

- dump.dis_xxx.cfg

cfg files include the location of particles at time step xxx. cfg files can be read by Ovito pacakge.

- tec_xxx.dat

tec files are similar to cfg files but they can be read by tecplot. Note that output for tec files might be nulled.

- velocity.txt


# Parameters
This is a brief list of parameters that are used the most in the code
